the decomposing bodies of dozens of
Palestinians have been found dumped in a
schoolyard in Northern Gaza Witnesses
say the victims were blindfolded and
tortured by Israeli forces before they
were killed their bodies were then
placed in plastic bags TK Abu aom
reports from rafan a warning his report
contains distressing
images this man searching bags
containing the bodies of Palestinians
who had been
missing
they were taken away by Israeli forces
and now some of their remains are being
discovered near hammed School in
Northern
Gaza as buildo SE through the Dei scent
of Decay fills the
air dozens of bodies have been dumped
here we were shocked to find a MTH grade
inside the Schoo yard were shocked to
find the dead bodies those are
Palestinian civilians blindfolded and
handcuffed at the back the dead bodies
were kept inside black plastic
bags Palestinian authorities are calling
for an investigation in a statement the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs and
expatriate said it demands the formation
of an international field investigation
team into the massacres committed by the
Israeli occupation and the conditions of
the missing and detained from the Gaza
Strip the discovery of this Mass grave
reflects the magnitude of the tragedy
faced by Palestinian civilians and
serious violation of all International
laws the discovery comes just the day
after Israel returned 100 Palestinian
bodies for burial in Rafa just like
Northern Gaza the condition of these
bodies Rangers from severely decomposed
to M kilter remains making it heart to
identify them
but people still come to this site
searching for cloa in this place of
tragedy
tabun Al jazer Rafa in southern
Gaza Diana butu is a Palestinian human
rights lawyer she's with us live from
rala Diana what was your reaction to the
discovery of these 30 bodies of
Palestinians who were found handcuffed
blindfolded and thrown in garbage at the
school in Northern Gaza
uh this is precisely why Israel was
taken to the international court of
justice with the accusation that it is
committing genocide and the fact that we
see that the icj ruled in favor of South
AF Africa and said that there was a
plausible risk of genocide is simply
this this evidence just simply bolsters
that opinion look Israel's been
committing war crimes against
Palestinians since 1948 and nobody has
ever held Israel to account I certainly
hope that this time the world is going
to wake up and do something about it uh
because this is this is clearly a war
crime and clearly Israel should not be
able to get away with it how
incriminating is it that the Israeli
soldiers left left these behind with
evidence of handcuffs that had serial
numbers and words in Hebrew written on
them this is uh because they feel very
emboldened and the reason that they feel
emboldened is because because Israeli
soldiers are rarely if ever charged with
crimes uh and in particular war crimes
especially when it comes to their
actions in Gaza we've seen video after
video since uh Israel's attack on the
Gaza Strip began with of them bragging
with the way that they are uh abusing
and torturing Palestinians so this is
yet another phase of them feeling as
though they are emboldened to do
whatever it is that they want to do they
feel that they that they will be able to
get get away with it and how how
critical is it that uh Palestinians and
international organizations document
these kinds of atrocities and and if so
how do they go about it in the middle of
a
war this is a very important question
this is why the international court of
justice in its decision on Friday
indicated that this type of evidence
needs to be preserved and of course the
only way that this type of evidence can
be preserved
is if there is a ceasefire what Israel
has done instead is it's tried to
distract the world it's tried to come up
with spous allegations against Ana and
against other organizations as well and
instead of people focusing on this
genocide and focusing on these war
crimes instead we see that everybody's
turning their heads in a different
direction that's why it's so vital for
people to keep their eyes on demanding a
ceasefire to keep their eye on demanding
that Israel stop such that this evidence
can be preserved Israel is not above the
law and shouldn't be allowed to get away
with war crimes and with genocide as it
so far has been able to get away with
right and if this if this information is
documented and is able to be preserved
how critical is it going to be How
likely is it going to be that there is
some some sort of prosecution of the
army I mean are there any precedence uh
that we can look
at within Israel the pr utions are few
and far between and and and completely
and totally insufficient uh for example
a few years ago there was an Israeli
solder who was caught on tape uh as you
it was recorded as he shot a emotionless
Palestinian man who was lying down the
street he shot him in the head and
killed him and that uh Israeli soldier
ended up going to prison for under a
year in fact when he was released from
prison he was hailed a soldier with
everybody from the prime minister to the
former Prime minister to others um
declaring him a hero and having a hero's
welcome for him so I don't have any
faith that there will be any
prosecutions inside Israeli um inside an
Israel court that said I do believe that
this opens the ground for opens the path
for prosecutions internationally this
isn't just a question of going to the
ICC the international criminal court
which is itself very political but it
paves the way because of this icj ruling
for countries around the world to to
prosecute these soldiers and these
individuals for the crimes that they
have committed because genocide is not
like ordinary crimes it is the worst of
crimes in international law and this is
precisely why the Israelis were fighting
the icj ruling why they're trying to
distract from the icj ruling and why
they continue to to not implement the
icj ruling okay I really appreciate your
time and perspective Diana butu
Palestinian human rights lawyer speaking
to us there from romala
my pleasure